how to migrate a project from umbraco 10 to 11 on cloud (#4815)
umbraco/UmbracoDocs: umbraco-cloud/upgrades/migrate-from-umbraco-10-to-11.md

---

> description:
>   In this article we show how you can upgrade your Umbraco 10 Cloud project locally to Umbraco 11 and then migrate the project to a new Umbraco 11 project.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: "In this article we show how you can upgrade your Umbraco 10 Cloud project locally to Umbraco 11 and then migrate the project to a new Umbraco 11 project."
```

---

> # Migrating a Umbraco 10 project to a Umbraco 11 project

Reviewer: Be aware: GitBook will automatically change the title here, based on what you called it in the SUMMARY file.

Author: Got it  👍

> Due to a temporary bug in the hosting services, we do not recommend to directly upgrade to Umbraco 11.

Reviewer: I don't think we need to mention this here. Wouldn't it make sense to instead keep the focus on the migration?

Author: Yeah makes sense, i am removing it!

> In this guide, we show how you can migrate your Umbraco 10 project to a new Umbraco 11 project on Umbraco Cloud instead.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this guide, we will migrate an Umbraco Cloud project from Umbraco 10 to Umbraco 11.
```

{% hint style="info" %}
**Are you using any custom packages?**

You will need to ensure the packages you use are available in Umbraco 11.

**Breaking Changes**

Make sure you know the [Breaking changes](../../umbraco-cms/fundamentals/setup/upgrading/version-specific/) in the latest version of Umbraco CMS.
{% endhint %}

## Prerequisites

* Follow the **requirements** for [local development](../../umbraco-cms/fundamentals/setup/requirements.md#local-development).
* A Umbraco Cloud project running **the latest Umbraco 10**
* The .NET 7 Software Development Kit (SDK) installed locally.

> * A clean Umbraco 11 project.

Reviewer: Is this Cloud or non-Cloud? 🤔

Author: Its cloud :)

## Step 1: Enable .NET 7

* Go to the Umbraco 10 project in the Umbraco Cloud portal.
* Navigate to **Settings** -> **Advanced**.
* Scroll down to the **Runtime Settings** section.
* **Enable the latest version of .NET** for each environment on your Cloud project.

<figure><img src="../../.gitbook/assets/runtime-settings.png" alt=""><figcaption><p>Runtime settings</p></figcaption></figure>

## Step 2: Clone down your environment

* Clone down the **Live** environment.
* Build and run the [project locally](../set-up/working-locally.md#running-the-site-locally).
* Log in to the backoffice.
* Restore content from your Cloud environment.

## Step 3: Upgrade the project locally using Visual Studio

* Open your project in Visual Studio - use the `csproj` file in the `/src/UmbracoProject` folder.
* Right-click your project solution in **Solution Explorer**.
* Select **Properties**.

<figure><img src="images/Solution-Explorer.png" alt=""><figcaption></figcaption></figure>

> * Select the **.Net 7** **Target Framework** drop-down in the **General** section of the **Application** tab as on your Cloud project.

Reviewer: This is quite confusing 🙈 
Perhaps try to split this up to simplify the steps a bit?

Author: I've tried to simplify it, let me know what you think!

![Target Framework](images/Target-Framework.png)

* Go to **Tools** > **NuGet Package Manager** > **Manage NuGet Packages for Solution...**.
* Navigate to the **Browse** tab.
* Install version 7.0.0 of the `Microsoft.Extensions.DependencyInjection.Abstractions` framework.
* Navigate to the **Installed** tab.
* Choose **Umbraco.Cms**.
* Select your project.
* Choose **the latest stable version of Umbraco 11** from the **Version** drop-down.
* Click **Install** to upgrade your project.

![Nuget Version Install](images/Nuget-Version-Install.png)

### Upgrading Add-on packages

Update the following packages to the latest stable version as well:

* Umbraco.Deploy.Cloud
* Umbraco.Deploy.Contrib
* Umbraco.Forms
* Umbraco.Deploy.Forms
* Umbraco.Cloud.Identity.Cms
* Umbraco.Cloud.StorageProviders.AzureBlob

{% hint style="info" %}
Choose the package version corresponding to the CMS version that you are currently upgrading to.

For example, if you are upgrading to "Umbraco.Cms 11.0.0" update the forms package to "Umbraco.Forms 11.0.0" as well.

Also, if you have more projects in your solution or other packages, make sure that these are also updated to support tUmbraco 11.

> {% endhint %}

Author: Hmm no you are right, i'll remove it

## Step 4: Finishing the Upgrade

* Enable [Unattended Upgrades](../../umbraco-cms/reference/configuration/unattendedsettings.md#upgrade-unattended)
* Run the **project locally**
* Log in to the Umbraco backoffice to **verify the upgrade** has happened.
* **Remove** Unattended Upgrades
* **Build and run** the project to verify everything works as expected.

![Target Framework](images/verify-v10-upgrade-locally.png)

Once the Umbraco project runs locally without any errors, the next step is to deploy our Umbraco 10 project to our **clean Umbraco 11 project**.

## Migrate Umbraco 10 project to Umbraco 11 project

> The following steps will guide you through the process of deploying your locally upgraded Umbraco 10 project to the **clean Umbraco 11 project**.

Reviewer: This is very similar to line 97 - consider only saying this once!

Author: Fixed it :)

{% hint style="warning" %}
Make sure that your local project is Upgraded to Umbraco 11 and works as expected before continuing the process.
{% endhint %}

1. Clone down the **clean Umbraco 11 project**.

> 2. Replace the `src/UmbracoProject/umbraco-cloud.json` file in the **old project** with the one from the **clean Umbraco 11 project**.

Reviewer: How about instead of calling it the "old project", we call it "the migration project" or something? 🤔 

Or, I remember doing this in similar guides previously, state somewhere in the guide what you will be calling the two projects going forward.
That way there's no confusion regarding which project is being referenced 🤔

Author: Makes sense to call it something else.

I think it could make sense to call it the same as its called in the prerequisites, just like I've done with the clean Umbraco 11 project 🤔

Author: Yeah makes sense to me :)

{% hint style="info" %}
The `umbraco-cloud.json` file contains details about each environment on the Cloud project.

By replacing the one on the **old project** with the one from the **clean Umbraco 11 project**, content and media transfers will point to the environments of the **clean Umbraco 11 project** instead.
{% endhint %}

1. Commit all the local changes on your **old project** through git, but do not push it yet.
2.  Use the following git commands to connect your local **old project** to the live environment of the **clean Umbraco 11 project** :

    ```
    git remote rm origin

    git remote add origin https://scm.umbraco.io/euwest01/name-of-us-live-site.git

    git fetch

    git branch --set-upstream-to=origin/master
    ```
3.  Push the schema and files from the  **old project** to the **clean Umbraco 11 project** using the following git command:

    ```
    git push origin master -f
    ```

> 4. Verify that the schema and files have been merged into the live environment on the **clean Umbraco 11 project**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Verify that the schema and files have been merged into the Live environment on the **clean Umbraco 11 project**.
```
